---
aliases:
- "/p/2a3b22c6"
- heartbeat-january-2022-rnyvlGWg
title: 'Heartbeat: January 2022'
date: 2022-01-03 09:47:13.000000000 +04:00
description: This first heartbeat shares good progress toward finishing 4 books in
  2022.
---
This article is my first attempt to provide structured periodic updates. [Basecamp’s Heartbeat method](https://world.hey.com/jason/what-s-in-a-heartbeat-4fd72d0e) provides updates across the company and inspires me to do the same. I scheduled updates on my calendar set for every sixth Thursday. As I write this, the first snow of the season falls outside my window.

The idea of the Postal Marines has dwelt in my mind for 15 years now. I roughly plotted sixteen novels, drafted four, and published two. I will spare you the history lesson of how, from 2014 to the present, nothing much has happened. The idea of a heartbeat is a status. My prior post on [the hiatus](/p/223fe4c7) gives the catch-up.

***20 Books Vegas 2021*** was seven weeks ago. Since then, I have made more progress despite my distractions. Chief among those distractions is my full-time career. Not that I’m counting (I have an app for that), I have 346 weeks until I can retire. Given I write and plan in weeks, it made sense to measure it thusly. I also like to program and dabble with toolchains. This has burned a considerable amount of my writing time in the past.

## Goal for 2022

I stated in [the hiatus](/p/223fe4c7) post that I would like to get the first four books of the Postal Marines series finished and released by November 2022. This entails two full rewrites, two substantial edits, and a new set of covers.

## Yak Shaving

This problem persists. I will spend a morning dabbling with a script that will theoretically save many mornings. This is akin to Lincoln’s maxim that if he had six hours to chop down a tree, he would spend four hours sharpening his axe. The term for working on tangential and perhaps non-productive work is *yak shaving*. ([Yak shaving](https://americanexpress.io/yak-shaving/) refers to a task that leads you to perform another related task and so on, and so on — all distracting you from your original goal. This is sometimes called “going down the rabbit hole.”

I feel like this is front-loading the excuses. Perhaps it is. My coding in December 2021 focused on worldbuilding and consistency. These are the four scripts that I worked on:

* [Terradoma Map](/tools/69939382): Ensures consistent navigation between systems. This uses work from 2011 and 2013 to support Terradoma. It includes a Terradoma-specific lookup of specific systems, and a scrollable map.

* [Travel Calculator](/tools/6561642b): Ensures consistent time estimates when travelling distances.

* [UWP Translator](/tools/6bce898c): I created this years ago and had to fix it because there were people in the Traveller RPG user base who had relied upon it.

* [Writing Progress](/tools/2a42a84a): This shows my weekly writing progress. I give daily updates that it summarizes weekly.

I also heavily worked on [my website](https://benwilson.io/), moving it to a minimal and responsive theme. Let me know how I did.

The impact of these tools should not be trivial. I am shifting away from my early worldbuilding decisions that relied on vague terms for distance (miles & paces to gigameters & jumps). This shift requires more precision with distance calculations. This has caused rewrites in my published books.

## Progress

Now that the yak is well groomed, what do I have to show for it?

**Baselining.** Returning to the Postal Marines required literary archeology. Each book had several drafts in different toolchains. *Postal Armada* (nee *Bellicose*) and *Clinate Defense* (nee *Scintilla*) were hardest because they were published. *Imbroglio* was the most interesting, since I started on that in 2006. I had to agree that the version I settled on was [canon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canon_%28fiction%29). This used much of November and December.

**Drafting & Revising.** I ran *Postal Armada* and *Clinate Defense* through [ProWritingAid](http://prowritingaid.com) (PWA), and found plenty of editorial oversights---even in the professionally edited version of *Bellicose*. And, as I work on *Maltuseblon Gambit*, I applied PWA to each chapter as I finished it. As of 2 January 2022, I added 14,056 words to *Gambit*, bringing the draft to 38,522. This is 45 percent of my target length of 85,000. My ambition is to finish *Gambit* by 28 February. I said 31 January before, but my actual progress suggests that was too ambitious. In practical terms, I drafted two chapters in six weeks. (Update: 4 January, finished Chapter 4 at 39,655 words.)

**Process.** For *Gambit*, I had a four-page synopsis I had problems with. I think the characters hated me trying to force them. As I work on the revision, I am plotting by chapter with a plan of eight chapters in the novel. As each chapter finishes, I am running them through ProWritingAid. I’ve forced myself to commit to using [Scrivener](https://www.literatureandlatte.com/scrivener/overview) because it is good enough.

**Business.** I cleaned up cobwebs for my old business documentation and created a double-entry spreadsheet in Google Sheets so I could track my expenses in 2022. I engaged a cover artist who can start my covers in Summer.

## Six-Week Plan

As a project manager, it feels good to have a plan. But I realize plans are themselves fiction.

* Finish five chapters in *Gambit*. This includes plotting, drafting and running through ProWritingAid. There should be some clean up leftover.

* Spend time on developing a series for 2023. I have an alternative history series that has development. I’m thinking of a more comedic time travel or portal fantasy bent.

* I would love to get to 10,000 words per week of [writing output](/tools/2a42a84a).
